<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>I: The Heir Presumptive</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Heir Presumptive</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The air was thick with falling snow, and the country side looked a formless mass of chilly whiteness, as the southwestern mail train carried John Treverton on a lonely midnight journey. There were not many people in the train on that bleak night, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton had a second-class compartment to himself.</p>
			<p>He had tried to sleep, but had failed ignominiously in the endeavour, waking with a start, after five minutes’ doze, and remaining broad awake for an hour at a time pondering upon the perplexities of his life, and hating himself for the follies that had made it what it was. It had been a very hard life of late, for the world had gone ill with John Treverton. He had begun his career with a small fortune and a commission in a crack regiment, and, after wasting his patrimony and selling his commission, he was now a gentleman at large, living as best he might, no one but himself knew how.</p>
			<p>He was going to a quiet village in Devonshire, a far away nook under the shadow of Dartmoor, in obedience to a telegram that told him a rich kinsman was dying, and summoned him to the death bed. The day had been when he hoped to inherit this kinsman’s property; not because the old man had ever cared for him, but because he, John, was the only relative Jasper Treverton had in the world; but that hope had vanished when the lonely old bachelor adopted an orphan girl to whom he was reported to have attached himself strongly. The <em>ci-devant</em> Captain had never seen this young person, and it is not to be supposed that he cherished very kindly feelings towards her. He had made up his mind that she was a deep and designing creature, who would, of course, play her cards in such a manner as to induce old Jasper Treverton to leave her everything.</p>
			<p>“He never bore me or mine much goodwill,” John Treverton said to himself, “but he might have left his money to me for want of anyone else to leave it to, if it hadn’t been for this girl.”</p>
			<p>During almost the whole of that dreary night journey he was meditating on this subject, half inclined to be angry with himself for having taken such useless trouble for the sake of a man who was not likely to leave him sixpence.</p>
			<p>He was not an utterly bad fellow, this John Treverton, though his better and purer feelings had been a good deal blunted by rough contact with the world. He had a frank winning manner, and a handsome face, a face which had won him the love of more than one woman, with little profit to himself. He was a man of no strong principle, and with a self-indulgent nature, that had led him into wrongdoing very often during the last ten years of his life. He had an easy temper, a habit of looking at the pleasanter side of things, so long as there was any pleasantness in them, and a chronic avoidance of all serious thought⁠—qualities which do not serve to make up a strong character. But the charm of his manner was none the less because of this latent weakness of character, and he was better liked than many better men.</p>
			<p>The train stopped at a little rustic station, forty miles westward of Exeter, about an hour after midnight, a dreary building with an open platform, across which the wind blew and the snow drifted as John Treverton alighted, the one solitary passenger to be deposited at this out of the way place. He knew that the house to which he had to go was some miles from the station, and he applied himself at once to the sleepy stationmaster to ascertain if there were any possibility of procuring a conveyance at that time of night.</p>
			<p>“There’s a gig waiting for a gentleman from London,” the man answered, stifling a yawn, “I suppose you are the party, sir.”</p>
			<p>“A gig from Treverton Manor?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks, yes, I am the person that is expected. Civil, at any rate,” John Treverton added to himself, as he walked off to the gig, wrapped to the eyes in his great coat, and with a railway rug across his shoulder.</p>
			<p>He found a gig, with a rough looking individual of the gardener species waiting for him in the snow.</p>
			<p>“Here I am, my man,” he cried cheerily, “have you been waiting long?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir. Miss Malcolm said as how you’d come by this train.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Malcolm sent you for me then?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“And how is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton, tonight?”</p>
			<p>“Mortal bad, sir. The doctors say as th” old gentleman hasn’t many hours to live. And Miss Malcolm, she says to me, ‘Jacob, you’re to drive home as fast as th’ horse can go, for papa is very anxious to see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> John before he dies.’ She allus calls the old gentleman papa, you see, sir, he having adopted of her ten years ago, and brought her up as his own daughter like, ever since.”</p>
			<p>They had jolted over the uneven stones of a narrow street, the high street of a small settlement which evidently called itself a town, for here, at a point where two narrow lanes branched off from the central thoroughfare, there stood a dilapidated old building of the town hall species, and a vaulted marketplace with iron railings, and closely-locked gates shutting in emptiness. John Treverton perceived dimly through the winter darkness an old stone church, and at least three Methodist chapels. Then, all in a moment, the town was gone, and the gig was rattling along a Devonshire lane, between high banks and still higher hedges, above which rose a world of hill and moor, that melted far off into the midnight sky.</p>
			<p>“And your master is very fond of this young lady, Miss Malcolm?” John Treverton inquired presently, when the horse, after rattling along for a mile and a half at a tremendous pace, was slowly climbing a hill which seemed to lead nowhere in particular, for one could hardly imagine any definite end or aim in a lane that went undulating like a snake amidst a chaos of hills.</p>
			<p>“Oncommon, sir. You see, she’s about the only thing he has ever cared for.”</p>
			<p>“Is she as much liked by other people?”</p>
			<p>“Well, yes, sir, in a general way Miss Malcolm is pretty well liked, but there is some as think her proud⁠—think her a little set up as you may say, by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton’s making so much of her. She’s not one to make friends very easy; the young ladies in the village, Squire Carew’s daughters, and suchlike, haven’t taken to her as much as they might have done. I’ve heard my wife⁠—as has been parlourmaid at the Manor for the last twenty years⁠—say as much many a time. But Miss Malcolm is a pleasant spoken young lady, for all that, to those she likes, and my Susan has had no fault to find with her. You see all of us has our peculiarities, sir, and it ain’t to be supposed as Miss Malcolm would be without hers,” the man concluded in an argumentative tone.</p>
			<p>“Humph,” muttered John Treverton, “a stuck-up young lady, I daresay⁠—and a deep one into the bargain. Did you ever hear who she was⁠—what her position was, and so on⁠—when my cousin Jasper adopted her?” he asked aloud.</p>
			<p>“No, sir. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton has kept that oncommon close. He’d been away from the Manor a twelvemonth when he brought her home without a word of warning to anyone in the house, and told his old housekeeper, as how he’d adopted this little girl⁠—who was an orphan⁠—the daughter of an old friend of his, and that’s all he ever said about her from that time to this. Miss Malcolm was about seven or eight year old at that time, as pretty a little girl as you could see⁠—and she has grown up to be a beautiful young woman.”</p>
			<p>Beautiful. Oh, this artful young person was beautiful, was she? John Treverton determined that her good looks should have no influence upon his opinions.</p>
			<p>The man was quite willing to talk, but his companion asked no more questions. He felt indeed that he had already asked more than he was warranted in asking, and felt a little ashamed of himself for having done so. The rest of the drive therefore, passed for the most part in silence. The journey had seemed long to John Treverton, partly because of his own impatience, partly on account of the numerous ups and downs of that everlasting lane, but it was little more than half an hour after leaving the station when they entered a village street where there was not a glimmer of light at this hour, except one solitary lamp shining feebly before the door of the general shop and post office. This was the village of Hazlehurst, near which Hazlehurst Manor House was situated. They drove to the end of this quiet street and along a high road bordered by tall elms, which looked black against the night sky, till they came to a pair of great iron gates.</p>
			<p>The man handed the reins to his companion, and then dismounted and opened these gates. John Treverton drove slowly into a winding carriage drive that led up to the house, a great red brick mansion with many long narrow windows, and a massive carved stone shell over the door, which was approached on each side by a flight of broad stone steps.</p>
			<p>There was light enough from the stars for John Treverton to see all this as he drove slowly up to the hall door. His coming had evidently been awaited anxiously, as the door was opened before he had alighted from the gig, and an old manservant peered out into the night. He opened the door wide when he saw John Treverton. The gardener⁠—or groom, whichever he might happen to be⁠—led the gig slowly away to a gate at the side of the house, opening into a stable yard. John Treverton went into the hall, which looked very bright and cheerful after his dreary drive⁠—a great square hall hung with family portraits and old armour, and with crimson sheepskins and tawny hides of savage beasts lying about on the black and white marble pavement. There was a roomy old fireplace on one side of this hall, with a great fire burning in it, a fire which was welcome as meat and drink to a traveller this cold night. There were ponderous carved oak chairs with dark red velvet cushions, looking more comfortable and better adapted for the repose of the human frame than such chairs are wont to be, and at the end of the hall there was a great antique buffet adorned with curious bowls and bottle-shaped jars in Oriental China.</p>
			<p>John Treverton had time to see these things as he sat before the fire with his long legs stretched out upon the hearth, while the old servant went to announce his arrival to Miss Malcolm.</p>
			<p>“A pleasant old place,” he said to himself. “And to think of my never having seen it before, thanks to my father’s folly in having quarrelled with old Jasper Treverton, and never having taken the trouble to heal the breach, as he might have done, I daresay, with some slight exercise of diplomacy. I wonder whether the old fellow is very rich. Such a place as this might be kept up on a couple of thousand a year, but I have a notion that Jasper Treverton has six times as much as that.”</p>
			<p>The old butler came downstairs in about five minutes to say that Miss Malcolm would be pleased to see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton, if he liked. His master had fallen asleep, and was sleeping more peacefully than he had done for some time.</p>
			<p>John Treverton followed the man up a broad staircase with massive oak bannisters. Here, as in the hall, there were family portraits on the walls, and armour and old china in every available corner. At the top of this staircase was a gallery, lighted by a lantern in the roof, and with numerous doors opening out of it. The butler opened one of these doors and ushered John Treverton into a bright looking lamp-lit sitting room, with panelled walls. A heavy green damask curtain hung before a door opening into an adjoining room. The mantelpiece was high, and exquisitely carved with flowers and cupids, and was ornamented by a row of eggshell cups and saucers, and the quaintest of oriental teapots. The room had a comfortable homelike look, John Treverton thought⁠—a look that struck him all the more perhaps because he had no settled home of his own, nor had ever known one since his boyhood.</p>
			<p>A lady was sitting by the fire, dressed in a dark blue gown, which contrasted wonderfully with the auburn tints of her hair, and the transparent pallor of her complexion. As she rose and turned her face towards John Treverton, he saw that she was, indeed, a very beautiful young woman, and there was something in her beauty which took him a little by surprise, in spite of what he had heard from his companion in the gig.</p>
			<p>“Thank God you have come in time, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton,” she said earnestly, an earnestness which John Treverton was inclined to consider hypocritical. What interest could she have in his arrival? What feeling could there be between them but jealousy?</p>
			<p>“I suppose she feels so secure about the old man’s will that she can afford to be civil,” he thought as he seated himself by the fireside, after two or three polite commonplaces about his journey.</p>
			<p>“There is no hope of my cousin’s recovery, I suppose?” he hazarded presently.</p>
			<p>“Not the faintest,” Laura Malcolm answered, very sadly. “The London physician was here for the last time today. He has been down every week for the last two months. He said today that there would be no occasion for him to come any more; he did not think papa⁠—I have always called your cousin by that name⁠—could live through the night. He has been less restless and troubled since then, and he is now sleeping very quietly. He may linger a little longer than the physician seemed to think likely; but beyond that I have no hope whatever.”</p>
			<p>This was said with a quiet, restrained manner that was more indicative of sorrow than any demonstrative lamentation could have been. There was something almost like despair in the girl’s look and tone⁠—a dreary hopelessness⁠—as if there were nothing left for her in life when the friend and protector of her girlhood should be taken from her. John Treverton watched her closely as she sat looking at the fire, with her dark eyes shrouded by their long lashes. Yes, she was very beautiful. That was a fact about which there was no possibility of doubt. Those large hazel eyes alone would have given a charm to the plainest face, and in this face there was no fault to be redeemed.</p>
			<p>“You seem to be much attached to my cousin, Miss Malcolm,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton said presently.</p>
			<p>“I love him dearly,” she answered, looking up at him with those deep dark eyes, which had a melancholy expression tonight. “I have had no one else to care for since I was quite a child; and he has been very good to me. I should be something worse than ungrateful if I did not love him as I do.”</p>
			<p>“And yet your life must have been a trying one, as the sole companion of an old man of Jasper Treverton’s eccentric temper. I speak of him as I have heard him described by my father. You must have found existence with him rather troublesome, now and then, I should think.”</p>
			<p>“I very soon learnt to understand him, and to bear all the little changes in his humour. I knew that his heart was noble.”</p>
			<p>“Humph,” thought John Treverton, “women can do these things better than men. I couldn’t stand being shut up with a crusty old fellow for a week.”</p>
			<p>And after having made this reflection, he thought that no doubt Miss Malcolm was of the usual type of sycophants and interlopers, able to endure anything in the present for the chance of a stupendous advantage in the future, able to wait for the fruition of her hopes with a dull, grovelling patience.</p>
			<p>“This appearance of grief is all put on, of course.” he said to himself. “I am not going to think any better of her because she has fine eyes.”</p>
			<p>They sat for a little time in silence, Laura Malcolm seeming quite absorbed by her own thoughts, and in no way disturbed by the presence of John Treverton. It was a proud face which he looked at every now and then so thoughtfully, not a loveable face by any means, in spite of its beauty. There was a coldness of expression, a self-contained air about Miss Malcolm which her new acquaintance was inclined to dislike. He had come to that house prepared to think unfavourably of her, had come there indeed with a settled dislike to her.</p>
			<p>“I think it is to you I am indebted for the telegram that summoned me here?” he said by-and-bye.</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, not to me directly. It was your cousin’s wish that you should be sent for⁠—a wish he only expressed on Monday, though I had asked him many times if he would not like to see you, his only surviving relative. Had I known your address, or where a letter would reach you, I think I should have ventured to ask you to come down without his permission, but I had no knowledge of this.”</p>
			<p>“And it was only the day before yesterday that my cousin spoke of me for the first time?”</p>
			<p>“Only the day before yesterday. On every previous occasion he gave me a short, impatient answer, telling me not to worry him, and that he had no wish to see anyone, but on Monday he mentioned your name, and told me he wanted particularly to see you. He had no idea where you were to be found, but he thought a telegram addressed to your father’s old lawyer would reach you. I sent the message as he directed.”</p>
			<p>“The lawyer had some difficulty in hunting me out, but I lost no time after I got your message. I cannot, of course, pretend any attachment to a man whom I never saw in my life, but I am pleased that Jasper Treverton should have thought of me at the last, nevertheless. I am here to testify my respect for him, in a perfectly independent character, having not the faintest expectation of inheriting one shilling of his wealth.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know why you should not expect to inherit his estate, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton.” Laura Malcolm answered, quietly. “To whom else should he leave it, if not to you?”</p>
			<p>John Treverton thought this question a piece of gratuitous hypocrisy.</p>
			<p>“Why to you, of course,” he replied, “his adopted daughter, who have earned his favour by years of patient submission to all his whims and fancies. Surely you must be quite aware of his intentions upon this point, Miss Malcolm, and this affected ignorance of the subject is intended to hoodwink me.”</p>
			<p>“I am sorry you should think so badly of me, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton. I do not know how your cousin has disposed of his money, but I do know that none of it has been left to me.”</p>
			<p>“How do you know that?”</p>
			<p>“I have been assured of it by his own lips, not once, but many times. When he first adopted me he made a vow that he would leave me no part of his wealth. He had been treated with falsehood and ingratitude by those he had loved, and had found out their mercenary feelings about him. This had soured him a good deal, and he was determined⁠—when he took me under his care out of motives of the purest charity⁠—that he would have one person about him who should love him for his own sake, or not pretend to love him at all. He took an oath to this effect on the night he first brought me home to this house, and fully explained the meaning of that oath to me, though I was quite a child at that time. ‘I have had toadies and sycophants about me, Laura,’ he said, ‘until I have come to distrust every smiling face. Your smiles shall be true, my dear, for you shall have no motive for falsehood.’ On my eighteenth birthday he placed in trust six thousand pounds for my benefit, in order that his death should not leave me unprovided for, but he took occasion at the same time to remind me that this gift was all I must ever expect at his hands.”</p>
			<p>John Treverton heard this with a quickened breath, and a new life and eagerness in the expression of his face. The aspect of affairs was quite altered by the fact of this oath sworn long ago by the eccentric old man. He must leave his money to someone. What if he should, indeed, leave it to him, John Treverton?</p>
			<p>For some few minutes his heart beat high with a new hope, and then sank again suddenly. Was it not much more likely that Jasper Treverton would find some means of evading the letter of his vow, for the benefit of a beloved adopted daughter, than that he should bequeath his fortune to a kinsman who was a stranger to him?</p>
			<p>“Don’t let me be a fool,” John Treverton said to himself, “there’s not the faintest chance of any such luck for me, and I daresay this girl knows as much, though she is artful enough to pretend complete ignorance of the old man’s designs.”</p>
			<p>The butler came in presently to announce that supper was ready for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton in the dining-room below. He went downstairs in answer to this summons, after begging Miss Malcolm to send for him the moment the invalid awoke.</p>
			<p>The dining-room was handsomely furnished with massive sideboard and chairs of carved oak, the long narrow windows draped with dark red velvet. There was a fine old Venetian glass over the sideboard, and a smaller circular mirror above the old inlaid bureau that occupied the space between the windows opposite. There were a few good cabinet pictures of the Dutch school on the panelled walls, and a pair of fine blue and white Delft jars on the high carved oak chimneypiece. A wood fire burned cheerily in the wide grate, and the small round table on which the traveller’s supper had been laid was wheeled close to the edge of the Turkey hearthrug, and had a very comfortable appearance in the eyes of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> John Treverton as he seated himself in one of the capacious oak chairs.</p>
			<p>In his disturbed state of mind he had little inclination to eat, though the cook had prepared a cozy supper that might have tempted an Anchorite; but he did justice to a bottle of excellent claret, and sat for some time, sipping his wine and looking about him thoughtfully, now at the curious old silver tankards and rose-water dishes on the sideboard, now at the Cuyps and Ostades on the dark oak walls. To whom would all these things belong when Jasper Treverton was no more? Throughout the house there were indications of wealth that inspired an almost savage longing in this man’s mind. What a changed life his would be if he should inherit only half of his cousin’s possessions. He thought, with a weary sigh, of the wretched hand to mouth existence that he had led of late years, and then thought of the things that he would do if he came in for any share of the old man’s money. He sat meditating thus until the servant came to tell him that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton was awake, and had asked to see him. He followed the man back to the study, where he had found Miss Malcolm. The room was empty now, but the curtain was drawn aside from the door of communication, and he passed through this into Jasper Treverton’s bedroom.</p>
			<p>Laura Malcolm was seated at the bedside, but she rose as John entered, and slipped quietly away by another door, leaving him alone with his cousin.</p>
			<p>“Sit down, John,” the old man said in a feeble voice, pointing to the empty chair by the bedside.</p>
			<p>“It is rather late in the day for us two to meet,” he went on, after a brief pause, “but perhaps it is better for us to see each other once before I die. I won’t speak of your father’s quarrel with me. You know all about that, I daresay. We were both in the wrong, very likely; but it has long been too late to undo that. I loved him once, God knows!⁠—yes, there was a day when I loved Richard Treverton dearly.”</p>
			<p>“I have heard him say as much, sir,” John answered in subdued tones. “I regret that he should have quarrelled with you; I regret much more that he should not have sought a reconciliation.”</p>
			<p>“Your father was always a proud man, John. Perhaps I liked him all the better for that. Most men in his position would have courted me for the sake of my money. He never did that.”</p>
			<p>“I know that,” answered Jasper Treverton, “nor have you ever sought me out, John, or tried to worm yourself into my favour. Yet, I suppose, you know that you are my sole surviving relative.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir, I am quite aware of that.”</p>
			<p>“And you have left me in peace, and have been content to take your chance. Well, you will find yourself none the worse off for having respected yourself and not worried me.”</p>
			<p>John Treverton’s face flushed, and the beating of his heart quickened again, as it had quickened when Laura Malcolm told him of his kinsman’s vow.</p>
			<p>“My death will make you a rich man,” returned Jasper, always speaking with a painful effort, and in so low a voice that John was obliged to bend over his pillow in order to hear him, “on one condition⁠—a condition which I do not think you will find it difficult to comply with.”</p>
			<p>“You are very good sir,” faltered the young man, almost too agitated to speak. “Believe me, I had no expectation of this.”</p>
			<p>“I daresay not,” replied the other. “I took a foolish oath some years ago, and bound myself not to leave my fortune to the only creature I really love. To whom else should I leave it then, but to you⁠—my next of kin? I know nothing against you. I have lived too remote from the world to hear its scandals; and I know not whether you have won good or evil repute among your fellow men; but I do know that you are the son of a man I once loved, and that it will be in your power to carry out my wishes in the spirit, if not in the letter. The rest I trust to Providence.”</p>
			<p>After having said this the dying man lay back upon the pillows, and remained silent for some minutes, resting after the exertion involved in so long a speech. John Treverton waited for him to speak again⁠—waited with a tumultuous sense of gladness in his breast, looking round the room now and then. It was a spacious apartment with handsome antique furniture, and panelled walls hung with old pictures, like those in the dining-room below. Dark green velvet curtains were closely drawn before the three lofty windows, and in the spaces between them there were curious old cabinets of carved ebony, inlaid with silver. John Treverton looked at all these things, which seemed to be his already, after what the dying man had said to him. How different from the home he had left, the shabby-genteel London lodging, with its tawdry finery, and decrepit chairs and tables.</p>
			<p>“What do you think of my adopted daughter, John Treverton?” the old man asked presently, turning his dim eyes towards his cousin.</p>
			<p>The younger man hesitated a little before replying. The question had taken him by surprise. His thoughts had been far away from Laura Malcolm.</p>
			<p>“I think she is very handsome, sir,” he said, “and I daresay she is amiable; but I really have had very little opportunity of forming any opinion about the young lady.”</p>
			<p>“No, you have seen nothing of her as yet. You will like her better when you come to know her. I cannot doubt that. Her father and I were warm friends, once upon a time. We were at Oxford together, and travelled a good deal in Spain and Italy together, and loved each other well enough, I believe, till circumstances parted us. I need have no shame in owning the cause of our parting now. We loved the same woman, and Stephen Malcolm won her. I thought⁠—whether rightly or wrongly⁠—that I had not been fairly treated in the matter, and Stephen and I parted, never to meet as friends again till Stephen was on his deathbed. The lady jilted him after all, and he did not marry until some years later. When I heard of him next he was in reduced circumstances. I sought him out, found him in a pitiable condition and adopted his daughter⁠—an only child⁠—doubly orphaned. I cannot tell you how dear she soon became to me, but I had made an oath I would leave her nothing, and I have not broken that oath, dearly as I love her.”</p>
			<p>“But you have made some provision for her future, sir!”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I have striven to provide for her future. God grant it may be a happy one. And now call my servant, if you please, John. I have talked a great deal too much as it is.”</p>
			<p>“Only one word before I call the man. Let me tell you, sir, that I am grateful,” said John Treverton, kneeling down beside the bed, and taking the old man’s wasted hand in his.</p>
			<p>“Prove it when I am gone, John, by trying to carry out my wishes. And now good night. You had better go to bed.”</p>
			<p>“Will you allow me to sit with you for the rest of the night, sir? I have not the least inclination to sleep.”</p>
			<p>“No, no, there would be no use in your sitting up. If I am well enough to see you again in the morning I will do so. Till then, goodbye.”</p>
			<p>The old man’s tone was decisive. John Treverton went out of the room by a door that opened on the gallery. Here he found Jasper Treverton’s valet, a grave-looking, grey-haired man, dozing upon a window seat. He told this man that he was wanted in the sick room, and then went to the study.</p>
			<p>Miss Malcolm was still there, sitting in a thoughtful attitude, looking at the fire.</p>
			<p>“What do you think of him?” she asked, looking up suddenly, as John Treverton entered the room.</p>
			<p>“He does not seem to me so ill as I expected to see him from your account. He has spoken to me with perfect clearness.”</p>
			<p>“I am very glad of that. He seemed a good deal better after that long sleep. I will ring for Trimmer to show you your room, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton.”</p>
			<p>“Are you not going to bed yourself, Miss Malcolm? It is nearly three o’clock.”</p>
			<p>“No. I cannot sleep during this time of suspense. Besides, he may want me at any moment. I shall lie down on that sofa, perhaps, a little before morning.”</p>
			<p>“Have you been keeping watch like this many nights?”</p>
			<p>“For more than a week; but I am not tired. I think when the mind is so anxious the body has no capability of feeling fatigue.”</p>
			<p>“You will find the reaction very severe by-and-bye, I fear,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton replied; and Trimmer, the old butler, having appeared by this time with a candle, he wished Miss Malcolm good night.</p>
			<p>The room to which Trimmer led John Treverton was on the other side of the house⁠—a large room with a comfortable fire blazing on the hearth, and reflecting itself in a border of old Dutch tiles. Late as it was, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton sat by the fire thinking for a long time before he went to bed, and even when he did lie down under the shadow of the damask curtains that shrouded the gloomy-looking fourpost bed, sleep kept aloof from him. His mind was busy with thoughts of triumph and delight. Innumerable schemes for the future⁠—selfish ones for the most part⁠—crowded and jostled each other in his brain. It was a feverish night altogether⁠—a night which left him unrefreshed and haggard when the cold wintry light came creeping in between the window curtains, and a great clock in the stable-yard struck eight.</p>
			<p>A countryfied-looking young man, a subordinate of the butler’s, brought the visitor his shaving water, and, on being questioned, informed him that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton the elder had passed a restless night, and was worse that morning.</p>
			<p>John Treverton dressed quickly, and went straight to the study next the invalid’s room. He found Laura Malcolm there, looking very wan and pale after her night’s watching. She confirmed the young man’s statement. Jasper Treverton was much worse. His mind had wandered towards daybreak, and he now seemed to recognise no one. His old friend the vicar had been with him, and had read the prayers for the sick, but the dying man had been able to take no part in them. The end was very near at hand, Laura feared.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton stopped with Miss Malcolm a little while, and then wandered down to the dining-room, where he found an excellent breakfast waiting for him in solitary state. He fancied that the old butler treated him with a peculiar deference, as if aware that he was to be the new master of Treverton Manor. After breakfast he went out into the gardens, which were large, and laid out in an old-fashioned style; straight walks, formal grass plats, and flower beds of geometrical design. John Treverton walked here for some time, smoking his cigar and looking up thoughtfully at the great red brick house with its many windows glittering in the chill January sunshine, and its air of old-world repose.</p>
			<p>“It will be the beginning of a new life,” he said to himself; “I feel myself ten years younger since my interview with the old man last night. Let me see⁠—I shall be thirty on my next birthday. Young enough to begin life afresh⁠—old enough to use wealth wisely.”</p>
			<p> </p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
