<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II: Jasper Treverton’s Will</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Jasper Treverton’s Will</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Jasper Treverton lingered nearly a week after the coming of his kinsman⁠—a week that seemed interminable to the expectant heir, who could not help wishing the old man would make a speedy end of it. What use was that last remnant of life to him lying helpless on his bed, restless, weary, and for the greater part of his time delirious? John Treverton saw him for a few minutes once or twice every day, and looked at him with a sympathising and appropriate expression of countenance, and did really feel compassionately towards him; but his busy thoughts pressed forward to the time when he should have the handling of that feeble sufferer’s wealth, and should be free to begin that new life, bright glimpses whereof shone upon his roving fancy like visions of paradise.</p>
			<p>After six monotonous days, every one of which was exactly like the other for John Treverton, who smoked his solitary cigar in the wintry garden, and ate his solitary meals in the great dining-room with his mind always filled by that one subject⁠—the inheritance which seemed so nearly within his grasp⁠—the night came upon which Jasper Treverton’s feeble hold of life relaxed altogether, and he drifted away to the unknown ocean, with his hand in Laura Malcolm’s, and his face turned towards her, with a wan smile upon the faded lips, as he died. After this followed three or four days of wearisome delay, in which the quiet of the darkened rooms seemed intolerable to John Treverton, to whom death was an unfamiliar horror. He avoided the house in these days as much as possible, and spent the greater part of his time in long rambles out into the open country, leaving all the arrangements of the funeral to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clare, the vicar, who had been Jasper Treverton’s closest friend, and a <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson, an inhabitant of the village, who had been the dead man’s solicitor.</p>
			<p>The funeral came at last, a very quiet ceremonial, in accordance with Jasper Treverton’s express desire, and the master of Treverton Manor was laid in the vault where many of his ancestors slept the last long sleep. There was a drizzling rain and a low, lead-coloured sky, beneath which the old churchyard looked unspeakably dismal; but John Treverton’s thoughts were far away as he stood by the open grave, while the sublime words of the service fell unheard upon his ear. Tomorrow he would be back in London, most likely, with the consciousness of wealth and power, inaugurating that new life which he thought of so eagerly.</p>
			<p>He went back to the house, where it was a relief to find the blinds drawn up and the dull grey winter light in the rooms. The will was to be read in the drawing-room⁠—a very handsome room⁠—with white and gold panelling, six long windows, and a fireplace at each end. Here <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson, the lawyer, seated himself at a table to read the will, in the presence of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clare, the vicar, Laura Malcolm, and the upper servants of the Manor-house, who took their places in a little group near the door.</p>
			<p>The will was very simply worded. It commenced with some bequests to the old servants, a small annuity to Andrew Trimmer, the butler, and sums varying from fifty to two hundred pounds to the coachmen and women servants. There was a complimentary legacy of a hundred guineas to Thomas Sampson, and a bequest of old plate to Theodore Clare, the vicar. After these things had been duly set forth the testator went on to leave the remainder of his property, real and personal to his cousin, John Treverton, provided the said John Treverton should marry his dearly-beloved adopted daughter, Laura Malcolm, within one year of his decease. The estate was to be held in trust during this interval by Theodore Clare and Thomas Sampson, together with all moneys therefrom arising. In the event of this marriage not taking place within the said time, the whole of the estate was to pass into the hands of the said Theodore Clare and the said Thomas Sampson, in trust for the erection of a hospital in the adjacent market town of Beechampton.</p>
			<p>Miss Malcolm looked up with a startled expression as this strange bequest was read. John Treverton’s face assumed a sudden pallor that was by no means flattering to the lady whose fate was involved in the singular condition which attached to his inheritance. The situation was an awkward one for both. Laura rose directly the reading of the will was finished, and left the room without a word. The servants retired immediately after, and John Treverton was left alone with the vicar and the lawyer.</p>
			<p>“Allow me to congratulate you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton,” said Thomas Sampson, folding up the will, and coming to the fireplace by which John Treverton was seated: “you will find yourself a very rich man.”</p>
			<p>“A twelvemonth hence, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson,” the other answered doubtfully,” always provided that Miss Malcolm is willing to accept me for her husband, which she may not be.”</p>
			<p>“She will scarcely fly in the face of her adopted father’s desire, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know about that. A woman seldom cares for a husband of anyone else’s choosing. I don’t want to look a gift horse in the mouth, or to seem ungrateful to my cousin Jasper, from whom I entertained no expectations whatever a week or so ago; but I cannot help thinking he would have done better by dividing his property between Miss Malcolm and myself, leaving us both free.”</p>
			<p>He spoke in a slow, meditative way, and he was pale to the very lips. There was no appearance of triumph or gladness⁠—only an anxious, disappointed expression, which made his handsome face look strangely worn and haggard.</p>
			<p>“There are not many men who would think Laura Malcolm an encumbrance to any fortune, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clare. “I think you will be happier in the possession of such a wife than in the enjoyment of your cousin’s wealth, large as it is.”</p>
			<p>“In the event of the lady’s accepting me as her husband,” John Treverton again interposed doubtfully.</p>
			<p>“You have an interval of a twelvemonth in which to win her,” replied the vicar, “and things will go hard with you if you fail. I think I can answer for the fact that Miss Malcolm’s affections are disengaged. Of course she, like yourself, is a little startled by the eccentricity of this condition. The position is much more embarrassing for her than for you.”</p>
			<p>John Treverton did not reply to this remark, but there was a very blank look in his face as he stood by the fire listening to the vicar’s and the lawyer’s praises of his departed kinsman.</p>
			<p>“Will Miss Malcolm continue to occupy this house?” he asked presently.</p>
			<p>“I scarcely know what her wishes may be,” replied <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clare, “but I think it would be well if the house were placed at her disposal. I suppose that we as trustees would have power to make her such an offer, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson, with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton’s concurrence.”</p>
			<p>“Of course.”</p>
			<p>“I concur most heartily in any arrangement that may be agreeable to the young lady,” John Treverton said, in rather a mechanical way. “I suppose there is nothing further to detain me here. I can go back to town tomorrow.”</p>
			<p>“Wouldn’t you like to go over the estate before you return to London, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton?” asked Thomas Sampson. “It would be just as well for you to see the extent of a property that is pretty sure to be your own. If you don’t mind taking things in a plain way, I should be very much pleased by your spending a week or so at my house. There’s no one knows the estate better than I do, and I can show you every rood of it.”</p>
			<p>“You are very kind, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson. I shall be glad to accept your hospitality.”</p>
			<p>“That’s what I call friendly. When will you come over to us? This evening? We are all to-dine together, I believe. Why shouldn’t you go home with me after dinner? Your presence here can only embarrass Miss Malcolm.”</p>
			<p>Having accepted the lawyer’s invitation, John Treverton did not care how soon his visit took place, so it was agreed that he should walk over to “The Laurels” with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson that evening after dinner. But before he went it would be necessary to take some kind of farewell of Laura Malcolm, and the idea of this was now painfully embarrassing to him, It was a thing that must be done, however, and it would be well that it should be done at a seasonable hour; so in the twilight, before dinner, he went up to the study, which he knew was Miss Malcolm’s favourite room, and found her there with an open book lying on her lap and a small tea-tray on the table by her side.</p>
			<p>She looked up at him without any appearance of confusion, but with a very pale, sad face. He seated himself opposite her, and it was some moments before he could find words for the simple announcement he had to make. That calm, beautiful face, turned towards him with a grave expectant look, embarrassed him more than he could have imagined possible.</p>
			<p>“I have accepted an invitation from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson to spend a few days with him before I go back to town, and I have come to bid you goodbye, Miss Malcolm,” he said at last. “I fancied that at such a time as this it would be pleasanter for you to feel yourself quite alone.”</p>
			<p>“You are very good. I do not suppose I shall stay here many days.”</p>
			<p>“I hope you will stay here altogether. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clare, the trustees, wish it very much. I do not think that I have much power in the affair; but believe me it is my earnest desire that you should not be in a hurry to leave your old home.”</p>
			<p>“You are very good. I do not think I could stay here alone in this dear old house, where I have been so happy. I know some respectable people in the village who let lodgings. I think I would rather remove to their house as soon as my trunks are packed. I have plenty to live upon, you know, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton. The six thousand pounds your cousin gave me yields an income of over two hundred a year.”</p>
			<p>“You must consult your own wishes, Miss Malcolm. I cannot presume to interfere with your views, anxious as I am for your welfare.”</p>
			<p>This was about as much as he would venture to say at this early stage of affairs. He felt his position indescribably awkward, and he wondered at Laura Malcolm’s composure. What ought he to say or do? What could he say that would not seem dictated by the most sordid motive? What disinterested feeling could there ever arise between those two, who were bound together by their common interest in a great estate, who met as strangers to find themselves suddenly dependent upon each other’s caprice?</p>
			<p>“I may call upon you before I leave Hazlehurst, may I not, Miss Malcolm?” he asked presently, with a kind of desperation.</p>
			<p>“I shall be happy to see you whenever you call.”</p>
			<p>“You are very kind. I’ll not intrude on you any longer this evening, for I am sure you must want quiet and perfect rest. I must go down to dinner with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson and the vicar⁠—rather a dreary kind of entertainment I fear it will be. Goodbye.”</p>
			<p>He offered her his hand for the first time since they had met. Hers was very cold, and trembled a little as she gave it to him. He detained it rather longer than he was justified in doing, and looked at her for the first time with something like tender pity in his eyes. Yes, she was very pretty. He would have liked her face better without that expression of coldness and pride, but he could not deny that she was beautiful, and he felt that any young man might be proud to win such a woman for his wife. He did not see his own way to winning her, however; and it seemed to him as if the fortune he had so built upon during all his reveries lately, was now removed very far out of his reach.</p>
			<p>The dinner was not such a dismal feast as he had imagined it would be. People are apt to accustom themselves very easily to an old friend’s removal, and the vicar and the lawyer seemed tolerably cheerful about their departed neighbour. They discussed his little eccentricities, his virtues, and his foibles, in an agreeable spirit, and did ample justice to his claret, of which, however, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clare said he had never been quite so good a judge as he had believed himself to be. They sat for a couple of hours over their dessert, sipping some Burgundy, of which Jasper Treverton had been especially proud, and John Treverton was the only one of the three who seemed troubled by gloomy thoughts.</p>
			<p>It was ten o’clock when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson proposed an adjournment to his own abode. He had sent a little note home to his sister before dinner, telling her of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton’s intended visit, and had ordered a fly from the inn, in which vehicle he and his guest drove to “The Laurels,” a trim, bright-looking, modern house, with small rooms which were the very pink of neatness, so neat and new-looking indeed, that John Treverton fancied they could never have been lived in, and that the furniture must have been sent home from the upholsterer that very day.</p>
			<p>Thomas Sampson was a young man, and a bachelor. He had inherited an excellent business from his father, and had done a good deal to improve it himself, having a considerable capacity for getting on in life, and an ardent love of moneymaking. He had one sister, who lived with him. She was tolerably good-looking, in a pale, insipid way, with eyes of a cold light blue, and straight, silky hair of a nondescript brown.</p>
			<p>This young lady, whose name was Eliza, welcomed John Treverton with much politeness. There were not many men in the neighbourhood of Hazlehurst who could have borne comparison with that splendid military looking stranger, and Miss Sampson, who did not yet know the terms of Jasper Treverton’s will, supposed that this handsome young man was now master of the manor and all its dependencies. For his sake she had bestowed considerable pains on the adornment of the spare bedroom, which she had embellished with more fanciful pincushions, and ring stands and Bohemian glass scent-bottles, than are consistent with the masculine idea of comfort. For his gratification also she had ordered a reckless expenditure of coals in the keeping up of a blazing fire in the same smartly furnished chamber, which looked unspeakably small and mean to the eyes of John Treverton after the spacious rooms at the Manor-house.</p>
			<p>“I know of a room that will look meaner still,” he said to himself,” for this at least is clean and neat.”</p>
			<p>He went to bed, and slept better than he had done for many nights, but his dreams were full of Laura Malcolm. He dreamt that they were being married, and that as she stood beside him at the altar her face changed in some strange ghastly way into another face, a face he knew only too well.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
