<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXX: Thou Art The Man</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-30" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Thou Art The Man</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The next day was Sunday. George Gerard was up as soon as it was light, and off for a ramble on the moor before the nine o’clock breakfast. This glimpse of the country was sweet to him even in the bleak January weather, and he wanted to make the most of his brief opportunity. When he came back to the Vicarage after his walk, he found Edward Clare smoking a cigar in the shrubbery.</p>
			<p>“What a fellow you are to be rambling about in such wintry weather!” cried Edward, by way of salutation. “I want a few minutes talk before we go in to breakfast. We may not get a chance of being alone afterwards. Celia is so fussy on Sunday mornings. I should like you to go to church with us, if you don’t object?”</p>
			<p>“I had made up my mind to go. I hope you don’t suppose I have an antipathy to churches?”</p>
			<p>“One never knows how that may be. I don’t imagine there’s much churchgoing among young professional men in London.”</p>
			<p>“I used to escort my mother to church every Sunday morning when I was a little boy, and those were my happiest days. If I didn’t like the Sunday morning service for its own sake, I should like it because it puts me in mind of her.”</p>
			<p>“Ah,” sighed Edward, “I dare say when a fellow loses his mother early in life he feels sentimental about her ever afterwards. But when a mother gets to the elderly and twaddly age, one may be fond of her, but one can’t feel poetical about her. I’ll tell you why I want you to go to church with us, Gerard. John Treverton is sure to be there. It will be a capital opportunity for you to take stock of him. Our pew is just opposite the Manor House pew. You’ll have him in full view all through the service.”</p>
			<p>“Very good,” assented Gerard. “If this <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton and Jack Chicot are the same, I shall know him wherever I see him.”</p>
			<p>Celia was in excellent spirits all breakfast-time, and poured out tea and coffee with a vivacity and a grace worthy of French comedy. The presence of a strange, young man had a wonderfully brightening influence. Celia felt grateful to her brother for having afforded this unaccustomed variety in the monotonous course of rural life. She took more pains than usual in putting on her bonnet for church, though that was an operation which she always performed carefully; and she happened somehow to be walking by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gerard’s side for the few hundred yards between the vicarage and the lychgate.</p>
			<p>The vicarage party were amongst the first arrivals. There were only the charity children in the gallery, and a few gaffers and goodies in the free seats. The gentry dropped in slowly. Here was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson, the lawyer, looking his sandiest, accompanied by Miss Sampson, in a distinctly new bonnet. Here was Lady Barker, short and fat and puffy, in an ancient velvet mantle, bordered with brown fur, like a common councillor’s cloak on Lord Mayor’s Day, and with a bonnet that reached the climax of dowdiness⁠—but when one is Lady Barker, and has lived in the same house for five-and-thirty years, it matters very little what one wears.</p>
			<p>Here came the Pugsleys, the retired ironmonger and his wife, from Beechampton, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Pugsley, positively gorgeous in velvet and sable, and with a bird of many colours in her bonnet. Next arrived <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Daracott, the rich widow, whose husband was the largest tenant farmer in the district, and who looked as if all Hazlehurst belonged to her; and here, after a sprinkling of nobodies, came John Treverton and his wife.</p>
			<p>The vicar gave out a New Year’s hymn two minutes after this last arrival, and the congregation rose.</p>
			<p>“The man is marvellously changed,” George Gerard said to himself as he stood face to face with John Treverton, “but he is the man I knew in Cibber Street, and no other.”</p>
			<p>Yes, it was Jack Chicot. Happiness had given new life and colour to the face, prosperity had softened the harshness of its outline. The hollow cheeks had filled, the haggard eyes had recovered the glory and gladness of youth. But the man was there⁠—the same man in whose face Gerard had looked a year and a half ago, reading the secret of his loveless marriage.</p>
			<p>Did he look like an undetected murderer? Did he look like a man tormented by remorse, weighed down with the burden of it guilty secret? Assuredly not. He had the straight outlook of one whose conscience is clear, Whose heart is free from guile. If he were verily guilty, he must be the prince of hypocrites.</p>
			<p>His wife was at his side, and George Gerard looked at her with painful interest. What a lovely trustful face, radiant with innocence and contentment. And was this guileless creature to be made wretched by the knowledge of her husband’s deceit? Was her heart to be broken in order that John Treverton should be punished?</p>
			<p>Edward Clare had said that it was for her sake he wanted to know the truth about her husband, it was that she might be rescued from a degrading alliance, protected from a man who was at heart a villain.</p>
			<p>George Gerard watched the husband and wife at intervals during the service. He could see nothing but placid content, a mind at ease, in the face of John Treverton. The idea of this freedom from care on the part of him who had been La Chicot’s husband embittered Gerard.</p>
			<p>“Had that woman been my wife I should have been sorry for her cruel fate, I should have mourned for her honestly, in spite of her degradation. But had she been my wife, she would never have sunk so low. I would have made it the business of my life to have saved her.”</p>
			<p>Thus argued the man who had passionately loved the beautiful, soulless woman, and who had never comprehended the emptiness of her mind and heart.</p>
			<p>Once in the progress of the service John Treverton looked across the aisle, and saw the stern grey eyes watching him. In that one glance Gerard saw that he was recognised.</p>
			<p>“What will he do if we meet presently?” Gerard asked himself. “He’ll cut me dead, no doubt.”</p>
			<p>They did meet, for in leaving the church porch Laura stopped to talk to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Clare and Celia. Edward and his friend were close behind.</p>
			<p>“Is it the man?” Edward asked, in a whisper.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” answered Gerard.</p>
			<p>They went along the churchyard path together, and at the gates there was a pause. Laura wanted the vicarage party to go to luncheon at the Manor-house, but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Clare declined. Of course the children could do what they liked, she said; as if her children had ever done anything else since they had emerged from the helplessness of infancy. Even in their cradles they had had wills of their own.</p>
			<p>Celia looked at her brother, and saw by a warning twitch of his eyebrows that she was to say no.</p>
			<p>“I think we had better go home to luncheon, she said, meekly. “Papa likes us to be at home on Sundays.”</p>
			<p>Then she gave her brother’s sleeve a little tug.</p>
			<p>“You haven’t introduced <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gerard,” she whispered.</p>
			<p>“Ah, to be sure. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gerard, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Treverton <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gerard and I have met before, under circumstances that made me deeply indebted to him,” said John Treverton, holding out his hand.</p>
			<p>Gerard lifted his hat, but appeared not to see the offered hand. This unexpected frankness took him by surprise. He had been prepared for anything rather than for John Treverton’s acknowledgment of their past acquaintance.</p>
			<p>It was a bold stroke if the man were guilty; but Gerard’s experience had taught him that guilt is generally bold.</p>
			<p>“I should be glad of ten minutes’ talk with you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gerard,” said Treverton. “Will you walk my way?”</p>
			<p>“We’ll all walk as far as the Manor-House,” said Celia. “We need not be home till two, need we, mother?”</p>
			<p>“No, dear, but be sure you are punctual,” answered the good-natured mother. “I shall say goodbye, Laura, my dear.”</p>
			<p>While Laura lingered a little to take leave of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Clare, Treverton and Gerard walked on in front of Celia and her brother, along the frost-bound road, under the leafless elms.</p>
			<p>“The world is much smaller than I took it to be,” John Treverton began, after a pause, “or you and I would hardly meet in such an out-of-the-way corner of it as this.”</p>
			<p>Gerard said nothing.</p>
			<p>“Were you not surprised to see me in so altered a position?” the other asked, after an uncomfortable pause.</p>
			<p>“Yes, I was certainly surprised.”</p>
			<p>“I am going to appeal to your kind feeling⁠—nay, to your honour. My wife knows nothing of my past life, save that it was wild and foolish. You know too well what degradation there was for me in my first marriage. I am not going to speak ill of the dead⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Pray do not,” interposed Gerard, very pale.</p>
			<p>“But I must speak plainly. When you knew me I was a most miserable man. I have stood upon one of the bridges many a night, and thought that the best thing I could do with myself was to drop quietly over. Well, Providence cut the knot for me⁠—in a terrible manner⁠—but still the knot was cut. I have profited by my release. Fate has been very kind to me. My wife is the dearest and noblest of women. To pluck the veil from my past history would be to give her infinite pain. I ask you, then, as a gentleman, as a man of honour, to keep my secret and to spare her and me.”</p>
			<p>“And you,” said Gerard, bitterly. “Yes, it is doubtless of yourself you think when you ask me to be silent. To spare you? Did you pity or spare the wretched creature who loved you fondly even in her degradation? As for your secret, as you call it, it is no secret. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clare, the Vicar’s son, knows as well as I do that John Chicot and John Treverton are one and the same.”</p>
			<p>“He knows it? Edward Clare?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Since when?”</p>
			<p>“Positively, since this morning in church. He had his suspicions before. This morning I was able to confirm them.”</p>
			<p>“I am sorry for it,” said John Treverton, after they had walked a few paces in silence. “I am sorry for it, I had hoped that part of my life was dead and buried⁠—that no phantom from that hateful past would ever arise to haunt my innocent young wife. It is very hard upon me: it is harder upon her.”</p>
			<p>“There are some ghosts not easily laid,” returned Gerard. “I should think the ghost of a murdered wife was one of them.”</p>
			<p>“Edward Clare is no friend to me,” pursued Treverton, hardly hearing Gerard’s remark. “He will make the most malicious use of this knowledge that he can. He will tell my wife.”</p>
			<p>“Might he not do something worse than that?”</p>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<p>“What if he were to tell the police where Chicot, the wife-murderer, is to be found?”</p>
			<p>My God!” cried Treverton, turning upon the speaker with a look of horror. “You do not think me that?”</p>
			<p>“Unhappily, I do.”</p>
			<p>“On what grounds?”</p>
			<p>“First, on the strength of your cowardly conduct that night. Why should you shirk the responsibility of your position if you were not guilty? Your flight was damning evidence against you. Surely you must have known that when you fled?”</p>
			<p>“I ought to have known it, perhaps; but I thought of nothing except how best and quickest to escape from the entanglement which had been the bane and blight of my manhood. My wife was dead. Those glassy eyes, with their awful look of horror⁠—that marble hand⁠—told me that life had been gone for hours. What good could I do by remaining? Attend an inquest at which the story of my life would be ripped up for the delight of every gossipmonger in the kingdom; until I, John Treverton, alias Chicot, stood face to face with the world, so tainted and infected that no innocent woman could own me as her husband? What good to me, to that poor dead woman, or to society at large, could have come of my cross-examination at the inquest?”</p>
			<p>“This much good, at least: your innocence⁠—if you are innocent⁠—might have been made manifest.</p>
			<p>John Treverton shook hands with Celia, but he only gave Edward a curt nod of adieu.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gerard,” he said, with cold courtesy. “Come, Laura, if Celia has made up her mind to go home to luncheon we mustn’t detain her.”</p>
			<p>“Duty prevails over inclination,” said Celia, laughingly. “If I were to come to the Manor House I should forget my Sunday-school work. From three to four o’clock I have to give my mind to Scripture history. How dreadfully absorbed you look, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gerard!” she exclaimed, struck by the surgeon’s thoughtful aspect. “Have you any serious case in London that is preying upon your mind?”</p>
			<p>“I have plenty of serious cases, Miss Clare, but I was not thinking of them just then,” he answered, smiling at her piquant little face, turned to him interrogatively. “My patients are mostly sufferers from an incurable malady.”</p>
			<p>“Good gracious, poor things! Is it an epidemic?”</p>
			<p>“No, a chronic disorder⁠—poverty.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, poor souls, then I’m sure I pity them. I’ve been subject to occasional attacks towards the end of the quarter ever since I’ve been an independent being with a fixed allowance.”</p>
			<p>They were walking homewards by this time, Edward in the rear.</p>
			<p>“Now, do you seriously think, Miss Clare, that a young lady, living in her father’s house, with every want provided for, can know the meaning of the word poverty?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly I do, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gerard. But I must tell you that you start upon false premises. Young ladies living in their fathers’ houses have not always every want provide for. I have known what it is to be desperately in want of six-button gloves, and not to be able to get them.”</p>
			<p>“You have never known what it is to want bread.”</p>
			<p>“I’m not particularly fond of bread,” said Celia, “but I have often had to complain of the disgusting staleness of the loaf they give us at luncheon.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, Miss Clare, when I was a student at Marischal College, Aberdeen, I have seen many a young fellow walking the street in his scarlet gown, gaunt and hungry-eyed, to whom a hunch of your stale loaf would have been a luxury. When a Scotch parson sends his son to the University he is not always able to give him the price of a daily dinner. Well for the lad if he can be sure of a bowl of porridge for his breakfast and supper.”</p>
			<p>“Poor dear creatures,” cried Celia. “I’m afraid Edward spends as much money on gloves and cigars as would keep an economical young man at a Scotch University⁠—but then he is a poet.”</p>
			<p>“Is a poet necessarily a spendthrift?”</p>
			<p>“Upon my word I don’t know, but poets seem generally given that way, don’t they? One can hardly expect them to be very careful about pounds, shillings, and pence. Their heads are in the clouds, and they have no eyes for the small transactions of daily life.”</p>
			<p>After this they walked on for a little while in silence, George Gerard thoughtfully contemplative of the fair young face, with its mignon prettiness and frivolous expression.</p>
			<p>“It would be a misfortune, as well as a folly, for a man of my stamp to admire such a girl as that,” he told himself; “but I may allow myself to be amused by her.”</p>
			<p>A minute afterwards Edward Clare came up to him, and took him by the arm.</p>
			<p>“Well,” he said, “what passed between you and Treverton?”</p>
			<p>“A good deal, yet it amounts to very little. I am sorry for him.”</p>
			<p>“Then you do not believe that he killed his wife?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. It is a profound mystery. I should advise you to let things take their own course. What good will it do for you to make that poor wife of his miserable? If he is guilty, punishment will come sooner or later. If he is innocent, it would be a hard thing for you to persecute him.”</p>
			<p>“What, do you suppose I am such a milksop as to let him go on his way unquestioned? I, who have loved Laura, and lost her? Suppose him even innocent of the murder⁠—which is more than I am ready to believe⁠—he is guilty of a cruel fraud upon his present wife, of an impudent fraud upon the trustees to Jasper Treverton’s estate, of whom my father is one. He has no more right to yonder Manor House than I have. His marriage with Laura Malcolm is no marriage. Am I to hold my peace, knowing all this?”</p>
			<p>“To reveal what you know will be to break <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Treverton’s heart, and to reduce her to beggary. Hardly the act of a friend.”</p>
			<p>“I may give her pain, but I shall not reduce her to beggary. She has a small income of her own.”</p>
			<p>“And the Manor House estate will be devoted to the creation of an hospital.”</p>
			<p>“Those are the conditions of Jasper Treverton’s will.”</p>
			<p>“As a professional man I am bound to rejoice; but as a mere human being I can’t help feeling sorry for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Treverton. She seems devoted to her husband.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” answered Edward, “he has contrived to hoodwink her; but perhaps when she knows that John Treverton is Jack Chicot, the ballet-dancer’s husband, she will be disenchanted.”</p>
			<p>Gerard made no reply. He began to understand that personal malignity was the mainspring of Edward’s anxiety to let in the light upon John Treverton’s secret. He was almost sorry that he had lent his aid to the discovery; yet he had ardently desired that justice should be done upon La Chicot’s murderer. It was only since his recent conversation with John Treverton that his opinion as to the husband’s guilt had begun to waver.</p>
			<p>He was haunted all the rest of the day by uncomfortable thoughts about the master of Hazlehurst Manor and his fair young wife; thoughts so uncomfortable as to prevent his enjoyment of Celia’s lively company, which had all the charm of novelty to a man whose youth had not been brightened by girlish society, and whose way of life had been dull, and hard, and laborious. He was to go back to London next morning by the first train, and although the Vicar pressed him to remain, and even Celia put in a kindly word, he stuck to his intention.</p>
			<p>“My practice is not of a kind that will bear being trifled with,” he said when he had thanked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clare for his proffered hospitality. “The few remunerative patients I have would be quick to take offence if they fancied I neglected them.”</p>
			<p>“But you give yourself a holiday sometimes, I suppose?” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Clare, whose large maternal heart had a kindly feeling for all young men, simply because her son belonged to that section of society. “You go to stay with your relations now and then, don’t you?”</p>
			<p>“No, my dear <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Clare, I do not; and for the best of all reasons⁠—I have no relations. I am the last twig of a withered tree.”</p>
			<p>“How sad!” replied the Vicar’s wife.</p>
			<p>Celia echoed the sigh, and looked compassionately at the surgeon, and compassion in Celia’s blue eyes was a sentiment no man could afford to despise.</p>
			<p>“If you will let me come again some day, when I have made a little progress in my profession, you will be giving me something pleasant to look forward to,” said Gerard.</p>
			<p>“My dear fellow, we shall always be glad to see you,” the Vicar answered, heartily. “It strikes me you are the kind of friend my son wants.”</p>
			<p> </p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
