<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXVII: The Tenant From Beechampton</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-37" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Tenant From Beechampton</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>While John Treverton was in Paris, waiting to obtain proof of Jean Kergariou’s identity with the sailor whose corpse he had seen carried to the Morgue, Laura was sitting alone in her husband’s study, full of anxious thoughts. The telegram from Auray had been delivered at the Manor House early in the afternoon, and had given comfort to the weary heart of John Treverton’s wife; but even this assurance of good news could not silence her fears. One horrible idea pursued her wherever she turned her thoughts, an ever-present source of terror. Her husband, the man for whom she would have given her life, had been suspected⁠—even broadly accused⁠—of murder. Let him go where he would, change his name and surroundings as often as he would, that hideous suspicion would follow him like his shadow. She recalled much that she had read about La Chicot’s murder in the daily papers. She remembered how even she herself had been impressed with an idea of the husband’s guilt. Every circumstance had seemed to point at him. And who else was there to be suspected?</p>
			<p>Strong in her faith in the man she loved, Laura Treverton was as fully convinced of her husband’s innocence as if she had been by his side when he came home on the night of the murder, and stood aghast on the threshold of his wife’s chamber, gazing at the horrid crimson stream that had slowly oozed from under the door, dreadful evidence of the deed that had been done. There was no doubt in her mind, no uncertainty in her thoughts: but she knew that as she had thought in the past, when she had read of the man called Chicot, so others would think in the future, if John Treverton, alias Chicot, were to stand at the bar accused of his wife’s murder.</p>
			<p>An awful possibility to face, alone, with the husband she loved far away, perhaps secretly watched and followed by the police, who might distort his most innocent acts into new evidences of guilt.</p>
			<p>“If he were at home, here at my side, I should not suffer this agony,” she thought. “It is here that he ought to be.”</p>
			<p>Celia had been at the Manor House twice since <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton’s departure, but on both occasions Laura had refused to see her, excusing herself on the ground that she was too ill to see anyone. Edward Clare’s conduct had filled her mind with loathing and with fear. She had felt the hidden tooth of the cobra, and she knew that here was a foe whose hatred was fierce enough to mean death. She could not clasp hands with this man’s sister, kiss as they two had been wont to kiss. She could not confide in Celia’s sisterly love. Brother and sister were of the same blood, could she be true when he was so profoundly false?</p>
			<p>“From this day forth I shall feel afraid of Celia,” she told herself.</p>
			<p>When the good-natured Vicar himself came on the day after the arrival of the telegram, anxious to comfort and cheer her in this period of distress, Laura was not able to harden her heart against him, even though he was of the traitor’s blood. She could not think evil of him, upon whose knees she had often sat in the early years of her happy life at Hazlehurst Manor; she could not believe that he was her husband’s enemy. He had behaved with exemplary gentleness when John Treverton stood before him accused of falsehood and fraud. Even his rebuke had been full of mercy. He was not perhaps a high-minded man, nor even a large-minded man. There was very little of the Apostle about, him, though he honestly tried to do his duty according to his lights, But he was a thoroughly good-hearted man, who would have gone a long way out of his straight path to avoid treading on those human worms over whose vile bodies a loftier type of Christian will sometimes tramp rather ruthlessly.</p>
			<p>Laura feared no reproaches from this old friend in her hour of misery. He might be prosy, perhaps, and show himself incapable of grappling a difficulty; but he would shoot no barbed arrow of scorn or contumely against that wounded heart. She felt secure in the assurance of his compassion.</p>
			<p>“My dear, this is a very sad case,” he said, after he had seated himself by her side, and patted her hand, and hummed and hawed gently for a minute or so. “You mustn’t be downhearted, my dear Laura; you mustn’t give way; but it really is a very sad affair; such complications⁠—such difficulties on every side⁠—one scarcely knows how to contemplate such a position. Imagine such a gentlemanly young fellow as John Treverton married to a French ballet dancer⁠—a⁠—French⁠—dancer!” repeated the Vicar, dwelling on the lady’s nationality, as if that deepened the degradation. “If my poor old friend could have known I am sure he would have made a very different will. He would have left everything to you, no doubt.”</p>
			<p>“Indeed, he would not,” cried Laura, almost indignantly. “You forget that he had made a vow against that.”</p>
			<p>“My dear, a vow of that kind could have been evaded without being broken. My dear old friend would never have bequeathed his fortune to a young man capable of marrying a French opera-dancer.”</p>
			<p>“Why should we dwell upon that hateful marriage?” said Laura. “If⁠—if⁠—my husband was not free to marry me at the time of our first marriage⁠—in Hazlehurst Church⁠—we must surrender the estate. That is only common honesty. We are both quite willing to do it. You and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sampson have only to take up your trusts for the hospital.”</p>
			<p>“My dear, you talk as lightly of surrendering fourteen thousand a year as if it were nothing. You have no power to realise your loss. You have lived in this house ever since you can remember⁠—mistress of all its comforts and luxuries. You have no idea what life is like on the outside of it.”</p>
			<p>“I know that I could live with my husband happily in any house, so long as we had clear consciences.”</p>
			<p>“My love, have you considered what a pittance your poor little income would be. Two hundred and sixty pounds a year for two people, at the present price of provisions; and one of the two an extravagant young man.’</p>
			<p>“My husband is not extravagant. He has known poverty, and can live on very little. Besides, he has talents, and will earn money. He is not going to fold his hands, and bewail his loss of fortune.”</p>
			<p>“My dearest Laura, I shudder at the thought of your facing life upon a pittance, you who have never known the want of money.”</p>
			<p>“Dear <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clare, you must think me very weak⁠—cowardly even⁠—if you suppose that I can fear to face a little poverty with the husband I love. I can bear anything except his disgrace.”</p>
			<p>“My poor child, God grant you may be spared that bitter trial. If your husband is innocent of all part in his first wife’s death, as you and I believe, let us hope that the world will never know him as the man who has been suspected of such an awful crime.”</p>
			<p>“Your son knows,” said Laura.</p>
			<p>“My son knows. Yes, Laura; but you cannot for a moment suppose that Edward would make any use of his knowledge against your interest. It was his regard for you that prompted him to the course he took last Sunday night.</p>
			<p>“Is it regard for me that makes him hate my husband? Forgive me for speaking plainly, dear <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clare. You have been all goodness to me⁠—always⁠—ever since I can remember. My heart is full of affection for you and your kind wife: but I know that your son is my husband’s enemy, and I tremble at the thought of his power to do us harm.”</p>
			<p>The Vicar heard her with some apprehension. He, too, had perceived the malignity of Edward’s feelings towards John Treverton. He ascribed the young man’s malice to the jealousy of a rejected suitor; and he knew that from jealousy to hatred was but a step. But he could not believe that his son⁠—his own flesh and blood⁠—could be capable of doing a great wrong to a man who had never consciously injured him. That Edward should make any evil use of his knowledge of John Treverton’s identity with the suspected Chicot was to the Vicar’s mind incredible, nay, impossible.</p>
			<p>“You have nothing to fear from Edward, my dear,” he said, gently patting the young wife’s hand as it lay despondingly in his, “make your mind easy on that score.”</p>
			<p>“There is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gerard. He, too, knows my husband’s secret.”</p>
			<p>“He, too, will respect it. No one can look in John Treverton’s face and believe him a murderer.”</p>
			<p>“No,” cried Laura, naively; “those cruel people who wrote in the newspapers had never seen him.”</p>
			<p>“My dear Laura, you must not distress yourself about newspaper people. They are obliged to write about something. They could put themselves in a passion about the man in the moon if there were nobody else for them to abuse.”</p>
			<p>Laura told the Vicar about the telegram received from Auray, with its promise of good news.</p>
			<p>“What can be better than that, my dear,” he cried, delightedly. “And now I want you to come to the Vicarage with me. Celia is most anxious to have you there, as she says you won’t have her here.”</p>
			<p>“Does Celia know?” Laura began to ask falteringly.</p>
			<p>“Not a syllable. Neither Celia nor her mother has any idea of what has happened. They know that Treverton is away, on business. That is all.”</p>
			<p>“Do you think Edward has said nothing?”</p>
			<p>“I am perfectly sure that Edward has been as silent as the Sphinx. My wife would not have held her tongue about this sad business for five minutes, if she had had an inkling of it, or Celia either. They would have been exploding in notes of admiration, and would have pestered me to death with questions. No, my dear Laura, you may feel quite comfortable in coming to the Vicarage. Your husband’s secret is only known to Edward and me.”</p>
			<p>“You are very good,” said Laura gently, “I know how kindly your invitation is meant. But I cannot leave home. John may come back at any hour. I am continually expecting him.”</p>
			<p>“My poor child, is that reasonable? Think how far it is from here to Auray.”</p>
			<p>“Think how fast he will travel, when once he is free to return.”</p>
			<p>“Very well, Laura, you must have your own way. I’ll send Celia to keep you company.”</p>
			<p>“Please don’t,” said Laura quickly. “You know how fond I have always been of Celia⁠—but just now I had rather be quite alone. She is so gay and lighthearted. I could hardly bear it. Don’t think me ungrateful, dear <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clare; but I would rather face my trouble alone.”</p>
			<p>“I shall never think you anything but the most admirable of women,” answered the Vicar, “and now put on your hat and walk as far as the gate with me. You are looking wretchedly pale.”</p>
			<p>Laura obeyed, and walked through the grounds with her old friend. She had not been outside the house since her husband’s departure, and the keen wintry air revived her jaded spirits. It was along this chestnut avenue that she and John Treverton had walked on that summer evening when he for the first time avowed his love. There was the good old tree beneath whose shading branches they had sealed the bond of an undying affection. How much of uncertainty, how much of sorrow, she had suffered since that thrilling moment, which had seemed the assurance of enduring happiness! She walked by the Vicar’s side in silence, thinking of that curious leavetaking with her lover, a year and a half ago.</p>
			<p>“If he had only trusted me,” she thought, with the deepest regret. “If he had only been frank and straightforward, how much misery might have been saved to both of us. But he was tempted. Can I blame him if he yielded too weakly to the temptation?”</p>
			<p>She could not find it in her heart to blame him⁠—though her nobler nature was full of scorn for falsehood⁠—for it had been his love for her that made him weak, his desire to secure to her the possession of the house she loved that had made him false.</p>
			<p>Halfway between the house and the road they met a stranger⁠—a middle-aged man, of respectable appearance⁠—a man who might be a clerk, or a builder’s foreman, a railway official in plain clothes, anything practical and businesslike. He looked scrutinisingly at Laura as he approached, and then stopped short and addressed her, touching his hat:</p>
			<p>“I beg your pardon, madam, but may I ask if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton is at home?”</p>
			<p>“No; he is away from home.”</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry for that, as I’ve particular business with him. Will he be long away, do you think, madam?</p>
			<p>“I expect him home daily,” answered Laura. “Are you one of his tenants? I don’t remember to have seen you before.”</p>
			<p>“No, madam. But I am a tenant for all that. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton is ground landlord of a block of houses I own in Beechampton, and there is a question about drainage, and I can’t move a step without reference to him. I shall be very glad to have a few words with him as soon as possible. Drainage is a business that won’t wait, you see, sir,” the man added, turning to the Vicar.</p>
			<p>He was a man of peculiarly polite address, with something of old-fashioned ceremoniousness which rather pleased <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Clare.</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid you’ll have to wait till the end of the week,” said the Vicar. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton has left home upon important business, and I don’t think he can be back sooner than that.”</p>
			<p>The stranger was too polite to press the matter further.</p>
			<p>“I thank you very much, sir,” he said; “I must make it convenient to call again.”</p>
			<p>“You had better leave your name,” said Laura, “and I will tell my husband of your visit directly he comes home.”</p>
			<p>“I thank you, madam, there is no occasion to trouble you with any message. I am staying with a friend in the village, and shall call directly I hear <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Treverton has returned.”</p>
			<p>“A very superior man,” remarked the Vicar, when the stranger had raised his hat and walked on briskly enough to be speedily out of earshot. “The owner of some of those smart new shops in Beechampton High-street, no doubt. Odd that I should never have seen him before. I thought I knew everyone in the town.”</p>
			<p>It was a small thing, proving the nervous state into which Laura had been thrown by the troubles of the last few days. Even the appearance of this courteous stranger discomposed her and seemed a presage of evil.</p>
			<p> </p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
